and other events of the week scandal
turned into an attempt to our film crew
groups drive to transnistria
April 19 in the port of Chisinau Moldavian
border guards first detained our
cameraman and then our
Artem special correspondent
wide after hours of searching and
interrogation they were denied entry into
Moldavia under the false pretext of mold
they say the purpose of the visit is not clear and it is far from
first case with an actual ban on
Moldavia weight of film crews of Russia
television which is the roughest
violation of international obligations
Moldova and its signed European
conventions it seems that
Moldovan authorities deliberately tighten
not only economic but also
information blockade of transdniestria
however, despite the fact that our
the crew had to return to
Moscow, we still managed to get
some videos
from transdniestria and thank you for our
colleagues in Tiraspol
so the question is what is trying
hide chisinau from the general public
and what lives unrecognized today
republic about this in the plot
artema wide almost four hours
interrogation and total inspection of all things
Here is a quick trip to
moldova we got Moldavian
border guards canceled
border crossing stamp and also yes you
gave us a paper on what true goals are
of our stay in the territory of Moldova
they are supposedly not and dreams but the reason for
really different as soon as ours
the operator found a certificate of this
center and border guards realized that
we are heading exactly to transdniestria
we were forced to buy return tickets
the plane to Moscow will emphasize our
the crew was already the fourth
account from Russia which was not allowed in
tiraspol about this tough
a statement was made by the Russian mid
the situation is certainly unacceptable and to
Unfortunately, this is not the first time when
Russian journalists
Moldovan authorities are not allowed on
country territory
of course we strongly recommended
silence you have to think about
that the negative effect of which is that
similar actions may have for
prospects for further development
Russian-Moldovan relations action
Moldovan border guards regarding
Journalists from Russia called
resentment and in foreign policy
Transdniestrian office
side regards these restrictive
measures as egregious gross violation of rights
and freedoms
basic democratic principles
we will consider such actions as
full information blockade
attempt to hide the real situation which
we have transnistria
from the catch to the question arises
well as trying to hide Chisinau
stubbornly
journalists as it turns out important
the nervousness of the Moldovan authorities is due to
future association with the European Union
document signing is scheduled for July
but since transdniestria is not promising
nothing good tiraspol
consistently expanding trading
relations with Russia in defiance of the Moldovan
authorities therefore chisinau comes up
some barrage measures for others
sticking a stick in the wheels of transnistrian
export businessman
our businesses must pass
Republic of Moldova registration
In addition, there are issues with issuing
phytosanitary veterinary certificates
the next stage of our interaction
already will directly work on
expandability
export and inclusion our enterprise
program about replacement of russia
however, these plans risk staying
paper every day to trade with Russia
harder
because now in the economic blockade
transdniestria is actively involved and
Ukraine new authorities in Kiev for
last year almost completely
severed ties with transnistrian
enterprises
from the guarantor of the negotiation process
Ukraine has become a guarantor of the blockade
transdniestria says president
Republic Yevgeny Shevchuk
Ukraine reduced the activity of the sentence
format took a number of people years
unfriendly decision one of these is
restriction of transnistrian movement
citizens holding Russian passports
across the border into the Ukrainian border
the second is the restriction of admission and at
calculating
cargo goods and 3 solutions of this ends
times additional forces and means
armed formation at the border and
admit directly from
transdniestria
for local production it all carries
significant damage
take at least an electric plant here
produce motor transformers and
generators for oil and gas and
coal industry
85 percent of the products shipped to
Russia but control all these supplies
only Chisinau complain at the factory
we are forced to use Moldovan
transport workers for delivery is like
Russian and our transport is blocked
for deliveries through the Republic of Ukraine
so what will happen next whether so
that after signing the agreement
associations of Moldova with the European Union
Moscow’s tiraspol trade relations can
generally collapse what will turn this for
Transnistria's economy speak unnecessarily
moldova as if specially trying
and undermine the situation in the military
plan in late March Chisinau spent
indicative military exercises with
Americans and for the first time since '92
foreign troops invaded the zone
delimitation between moldavia
Transnistria you are far from the landfill
Bulba to although this is a gross violation
ceasefire agreements just
not far from this means polygon bulbu
to is located balaba not
what is the distance from the polygon somewhere
about two kilometers that's how
times within these limits
and it means the introduction of the entry in the
central part of the security zone
here these units are national
Republic of Moldova armies and
directly to the national guard
united states of america such
provocative actions cannot dramatically
complicate the security zone situation
a paradoxical situation
while Russia provides security
transdniestria helps to build a loophole
Moldovan schools and kindergartens are like
specially tightening our stranglehold
Republic but the main thing that they are trying to
hide the Moldovan authorities it is absolutely
russian spirit transdniestria tiraspol and in
unlike chisinau and kiev nobody
questions the celebration of May 9th
for us may 9
first of all it is a great holiday
wins it
celebration of the feat and courage of those people
who fought for our homeland
against brown plague and i think
Transnistrian people never
will allow the repetition of this on our
earth
on the streets of Transnistrian cities already
distribute St. George ribbons honoring
veterans spend various promotions and
events dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the great
victories and any attempts
rename holiday or downplay
the value of the feat of the Soviet people here
no, I surely am a participant
I have long wanted to be in the rear every year.
handed out on the bus a lot of wishing him
on the ribbon fasten so that
do
thank you very much, this is a holiday
apparently, and try to hide
Moldovan authorities do not allow
transdniestria russian magazine
Artyom Shirokov Gennady Kuznetsov and
Alexandra Zizka analytical program
postscript supported by the press service
Transdniestrian Interior Ministry